X-ray is the most common type of 2D imaging.
How it works is illustrated in this picture.
An x-ray generator emits a type of radiation called electromagnetic waves.
These waves are absorbed differently by different tissues in the body.
Based on how much wave the tissue absorbs,
the tissue will appear bright or dark on the image.
So I just mentioned that different types of tissue absorb X-rays differently.
How much radiation the tissue absorbs makes a tissue more or less visible in an image.
Remember how earlier in this lesson we discussed that if an organ is behind bone,
it's difficult to see on a 2D X-ray?
That's because bone has high absorption and therefore appears bright white.
Soft tissues, like the heart and diaphragm,
absorb a medium amount and appear gray.
Air does not absorb any X-rays and thus appears black.
Healthy lungs like what you see on this picture,
look nearly black on an X-ray because that's mostly all that's inside of them.
X-ray is most commonly used to examine bone fractures,
since bones appear the brightest due to their high absorption of X-ray.
While we usually think of X-rays to only look for fractures and bones,
they're actually also very commonly used for assessing abnormalities in the lungs.
One example is the examination of pneumonia.
Pneumonia fills the lungs with infiltrates which are
denser than air and therefore absorb more radiation,
appearing as bright regions on an X-ray.
Chest X-rays can also be used to look for other types of
abnormalities like tumors depending on their absorption properties,
as well as nodules,
lung collapse, and fluid in the lungs.
X-ray is also commonly used for assessing
breast tissue using a technique called mammography.
A single image is called a mammogram.
Mammography still creates a 2D X-ray images,
but it uses a special type of X-ray machine and they are usually interpreted
by a special type of radiologist who is highly trained in breast imaging.
Mammography is commonly used to screen for
breast cancer and detect any abnormalities in the breast.
Because breast cancer is so common in women as they age,
nearly 40 million mammograms are conducted every year for screening in the US.
Now that we've talked about X-ray as
the most common 2D medical imaging technique and its application,
let's move on to the properties of the 2D image itself.
Like all images, 2D medical images are made up of pixels,
each with an intensity value.
If we plot a histogram of all of the intensities,
we will get an intensity profile of the image.
We're going to talk a lot about
these intensity profiles and how to assess and manipulate them throughout this course.